# DJ Transition Predictor
A supervised learning framework that predicts control signals to generate DJ transitions between tracks. We acknowledge the use of ChatGPT in writing and editing parts of our code.

## Training Results
Observe the results of our single sample training through these audio files:

- S1.wav: The outgoing song over the transition region.
- S2.wav: The incoming song over the transition region.
- ground_truth.wav: The real DJ transition that we aim to replicate.
- prediction.wav: The final predicted transition.

## Scripts
To run the project, execute the scripts in the following order:

1. generate_mixes_csv.py: Generates a CSV file containing information about mixes.
2. generate_tracks_csv.py: Generates a CSV file containing information about tracks.
3. download_mixes.py: Downloads mixes from dataset.
4. download_tracks.py: Downloads tracks from dataset.
5. feature_extraction.py: Caches features from audio data, including chroma, MFCC, spectral contrast, etc.
6. alignment.py: Performs alignment of mixes and tracks using dynamic time warping (DTW).
7. segmentation.py: Uses alignment data to create a CSV file with information about input-output pairs.
8. preprocess_data.py: Preprocesses data for training the model.
9. train_model.py: Trains the model on the preprocessed data.

## Notebooks
The notebooks folder contains IPython notebooks that perform the following analyses:

- csv_eda.ipynb: Performs exploratory data analysis on the CSV files generated by the generate_mixes_csv.py and generate_tracks_csv.py scripts.
- features_eda.ipynb: Visualizes features that are generated from the audio files.
- alignment_eda.ipynb: Performs exploratory data analysis on the alignment data, including an evaluation of different feature combinations.
- construct_transition.ipynb: This notebook is used during inference to reconstruct audio files for the predicted DJ transitions.